**new features** for character dao

1. **discrepancies on ARIN character and how she can be more involved in the app**
**expected behavior**
arin should not be visible in the homepage or anywhere except /meet-arin.

but ARIN has to be there in the characters Model, as we have prisma conversation-character relation.

2. **Forking the characters**
**expected behavior**
user presses edit charcter, at the time of saving, check if the user is the creator, if yes, just save it. if it is not the creator, check if details have changed, then fork it.

**specifics**
we create the character inside the same character table.
at least one detail has to be changed to create a FORK.
add parentcharacterid so that you can get analytics like most forked characters.
isforked - needed as only originals can be forked ???? (forked character also can be forked, but not by the person who created it.)
if i am the creator, and if isForked is true, then i cant fork it. THATSIIT.
**add a column isForked, if true, then it can't be forked again. - cant use this logic as there might be other characters which are forked but i didnt fork them.**

3. **Profile picture history**
**problem**
for profile picture history, every user should have their own profile pic history for each character.

when i change the picture other than editing character, 

**expected behavior**
it is local customization. that doesn't mean we are using local storage. it just means the history is available only to a certain user.
if they are not the creator, User can pick their own profile picture, **but doesn't affect others**.
if they are the creator, the change is visible to others.
but both of them see what they have selected as the profile picture in the past.

but how are we solving the issue?

model UserCharacterProfilePicture {
  id           String   @id @default(uuid())
  userId       String   @unique @map("user_id")
  characterId  String   @map("character_id")
  profileUrl   String
  createdAt    DateTime @default(now())
}

so, when i add a new profile picture, i add a new row onto this model, and i receive all the rows with userid and characterid and those will be the images before

and we add an isActive to see whether that picture is the current dp


ONLY USERS WHO ARE CREATORS CAN EDIT, otherwise FORK. 